---
layout: post
title: "My first Ruby on Rails job"
date: 2015-04-09
categories: Ruby
feature: http://i.imgur.com/Ds6S7lJ.png
permalink: first-ruby-on-rails-job
comments: true
---
Coming from a country whose economy is shifting from agriculture to knowledge based economy with a focus on ICT, The youth tend to ignore other possibilities this can be leveraged and just rush to choosing Computer science studies. 
Eventhough this is not a bad thing, the problem occurs when you see the number of graduants and the number of "Job offerings". I quoted this because if there's anything that i've noticed is that there are people out there who are looking for someone with your skills but who'll never post that in the newspapers or even spread the word out there for everyone to see it.

You get to see the problem with this when there's a job offering and the person in charge get hundreds of applications or when job offerings ask for unrealistic things(i.e: 10 years of experience in a field that is 3 years old) just so that they don't have to deal with a lot of people.
Now for a fresh graduate, it becomes a challenge and most of them prefer going with whatever they are confortable with than pushing for what they really want. Which results in having many years of experience in a field they don't really like or they can't evolve in.

I wasn't any different, i studied "Electronique Informatique"(computer electronics???) in highschool and upon graduation i worked for a company as a tech support. It wasn't the best job but i was getting my money and managed to pay for my university fees, and to be honest, i don't think i could've landed any better job.

Anyways, After graduating in computer science, i wanted to change my work area. I was bored and not challenged, same thing everyday. I wanted to do more programming and deal less with people calling for support when it's just a mouse cable that is not plugged in.

I wasn't that skilled to be honest, but my googling skills were not terrible. So i could get anything i want from it and put together codes from here and there and have a working "application" in the end.

I did that for a while but i wasn't confortable enough especially now that i had found about freelancing. I loved the freedom that came with it, plus i could do other things aside.
The challenge with this was my portfolio. I had nothing worth sharing to a potential customer. I decided to find real projects that i would work on and gain experience as i grow my portfolio.

So here's what i did, i went on linkedin and typed "Ruby Rwanda" i emailed everyone the same message below.

>Hello name,<br>
i hope this email finds you well, i’m a Jr ruby on rails developer living in Rwanda and hungry for experience.<br>
in fact, i got your email from linkedin when i was looking for people who code in ruby in Rwanda.<br>
i’m currently looking for an internship, mentorship or some remote works with a company that uses Ruby. You can check my linkedin profile "puts link" to see what i’ve been working on.<br>
Anyway, do you think that this is something you can help me with? i realised that the company you work for ("company name") uses ruby in most of web development work.<br>
i also thought of starting a Rails community here in Rwanda, cause i realised that it’s not common around here.<br>
i hope to read from you soon,<br>
Thibault

Two weeks later i got a reply from one of them. Turns out, he was overwhelmed with work and had some side projects pending. He made me an offer that i couldn't refuse as i had even offered to work on those for free as long as i could use it in my portfolio. The first project was an event management web app and i mostly customized the front end of what he had and did a little bit of refactoring.

So if you're at stage where you want to change what you've been doing, your next opportunity is just one(or more) email away :) I know there are people out there who are looking for jobs and others who need help with their work but who won't make it official or don't even want to deal with too many applicants! 

So just identify your target and shoot the worst thing they can do is report your email as spam ;)